# TDEI-api-tester
API tester for the client-API received from swagger.

This component helps in testing the Gateway APIs by running tests on all the APIs that the gateway exposes.

The Gateway API are exposed as [Swagger](https://tdei-gateway-dev.azurewebsites.net/swagger-ui/index.html)

For Seeding the initial data on tests, this component also makes use of usermanagement portal that is hosted [here](https://tdei-usermanagement-ts-stage.azurewebsites.net). The `seeder.ts` class takes care of generation of org, station, service details appropriately.

The component runs by importing the generated API classes of APIs and testing each of the functions. 

The API methods are autogenerated and are available in [API-Client](https://github.com/TaskarCenterAtUW/TDEI-api-client). 

# Steps to run tests
- The testing rig is currently configured based on `test-harness.json` file.
- An example of the file is already given as `test-harness.example.json`
- `npm i`
- `npm run test`

The above code runs the tests and generates a `test-report.html` (already included for reference)

## Test harness format (json)
The `test-harness.json` file is used for getting the credentials of the system.

```json
{
    "seed":{
        "baseUrl":"<base url for user management>",
        "adminUser":"<admin username>",
        "adminPassword":"<password for admin>"
    },

    "system":{
        "baseUrl":"<base URL for Gateway>",
        "username":"<producer/poc username>",
        "password":"<password>"
    }
}

```


## Adding more test cases
- create a file in `src/__tests__` folder.
- name it in the format `<group>.test.ts`
- Write test cases based on [jest](https://jestjs.io/docs/getting-started)

## Important notes on writing tests for better readability
- Consider Adding tests in the below format
> Given
- Setup test data in this step
- Give a line break
> When
- Perform some action
- Give a line break
> Then
- Assert result

```typescript
describe('my-awesome-test', () => {
	const getTestData => return {};
	it('should validate schema response', () => {
		let testData = getTestData();
		let api = new myAwesomeApi();
		
		const result = api.getVersions();

		expect(result.status).toBe(200);
		expect(result.myAwesomeField).toBe('valid');
	});
});
```




## Seeder requirements (for implementation)
- To enhance the testing with different personas and varied systems, it is imperative that we generate
  some scripts that allow generation of users and other seed data required for testing.
- Here are the requirements for seed data generation

- Create an organization with random org data
- Create/register a user for POC role
- Create a user for each role 
- Assign the roles to the users for the generated organization
- Create a pathways station
- Create a flex service

- Generate and keep the access tokens of all the users.

The above seeder should generate all of this and respond with a json or object with the following format:

```json
{
	"users":{
		"poc":"<poc api token>",
		"flexdg":"<flex data generator api key>",
		"pathwaydg":"<pathways data generator api key>",
		"oswdg":"<osw data generator api key>"
	},
	"tdei_org_id":"<generated org ID>",
	"station_id":"<generated station ID>",
	"service_id":"<service ID>"
}

```
